here. What on earth did I do to the ISO
on this
camera? There we go. Okay, we should be
live. Hi. Uh, today we are
building an excavation sim all day. So,
I got Spencer here. Hi,
Spencer. I think that I have desktop
audio pipe. Say
something. Oh, [__] No, I don't. Uh,
hang on. Why is this not grabbing
desktop
audio? Oh, because I'm dumb right
now. What in the hell, dude? How is it
that I reboot the computer and just
overnight stuff starts stops
working? I don't think it is because I
don't see your
audio. Vice is default.
Uh, hang on. Desktop. Anybody know the
OBS? So, we can get the stream freaking
working. I've got this thing here. I
should have mic for Spencer here and it
just
doesn't the
hell.
Uh, desktop
audio
properties
device. Did what?
Google a thing real
quick. Love audio problems. Uh it's cuz
the things are incredibly cursed and
they just stop working randomly for no
apparent
reason. Sure.
If you're using an audio
interface device
default wait this should not
be ah
maybe do I have to set Hang on say
something. God damn it.
No. What the heck,
man? Dude, I like literally I was like
already I thought I'd fixed everything
and it's just like
This supposed to be set to
like
this. No.
I mean, that is the only thing I can
think actually that I could have screwed
up. We will be building a sim all day as
soon as tech
issues. Dang it.
I mean, surely that fixes it, right?
desktop
audio. Oh, wait. Something just happened
here. That's Spencer. Hey, Spencer. What
up? Now it works for some. Okay, I don't
understand audio. It's weird. Hey,
Haku. All right, so here's the setup. We
grab We fixed it. Launch chat. Grab
this. We manually edit the page source
so that I can actually see the freaking
chat on here. Uh I have to do this every
time. It's
obnoxious. And then this goes under my
camera where I can see it but you
cannot. And then we can edit
stuff. All right. So you got we got a
T-Max here. We've got um you we're on
the same
box. We've got two.
All right, we're ready to rock and
roll max
one. Okay,
so yeah, so this now works. Cool. So,
uh, I made us, you should be able to see
all this stuff that I'm
doing. Uh, I made us terraform here.
Okay, it's already got an M uh, an N b
find binding on like the environment.py.
I went ahead and I renamed stuff. I
grabbed simplex here as well. Um, so we
will have terrain genen. This is the
same as I use for neural MMO. So, we
should be able to kind of just use the
terrain gen from there for now, plus
maybe carve out some extras. And uh
yeah, we should be pretty well ready to
set this thing up and
go. Is the terrain gen and simplex
already? Um well, I
guess like 2.5D.
You just need it just needs to generate
height map. Hey, Haku, we are building a
excavation sim. in puffer all
day. So, new sim dev day.
So if I grab the uh from neural MMO
like how do you get it to not screw up
your theme when uh you're in Demox?
I have no idea.
So
obnoxious. Oh, I think it's cuz it
launches. Hang on.
There we go. All right. Rejoin re uh
reattach to
teamups. And now it's it works. Now it's
not the super low contrast [__]
thing.
So this is our pearl and noise right
here. We can literally just grab
this. This is what I use for neural MMO.
Exactly.
So, this just takes a
map, uh, 2D map with a width and a
height, and it generates you a, uh, it
generates you noise off of
that. So, we literally just have terrain
gen already out of the
box. Oh, wait. I can just pass that as a
bigger 3D end but
in whatever just I can just pass a
singular 1D array that's 3D or whatever.
Well, it only needs to be 2D, right? Cuz
it's a height map. So, it's XY and then
it's the
height. You only need it to be true 3D
if you want to do tunnels. Right.
Right. But how are we going to generate
the height map just randomly or are we
just going to call noise 2 again? No,
you literally just call this on a like
if map is a 2D, right? You literally
just call it on this. You set up another
array for the height parameter of the
height map and just call pearl and noise
twice. No, you call it literally. So
this thing, what do you mean call it
twice? The output of pearl and noise is
the
height at each spot in the array, right?
So it's a 2D grid. Element of the 2D
grid is the height at that point.
Okay. Yes, you're correct. Yes.
Literally, that's all you got to do.
All right. So,
cool. I set us up. I took the liberty of
setting us this thing.
So I think it's literally just like in
reset we do like
um observation skips
reset we just do like pearl and noise
something like
this and that's it. That gives us that
that's already the terrain gen done.
You want to push what you want to push
what you have here and I can render and
make start. I'm sure we have to fix a
ton of little things,
right? It's probably best if we can get
this thing to pass a test first locally.
Otherwise, I'm going to have to be
merging PRs from you all day, right?
So, why don't we get like a a demo to at
least like to run the demo? Yeah.
You're saying before we start doing
split dev? Yeah. That way we get have
like a working thing. That way otherwise
I'm going to be merging PRs from you
constantly with little tiny fixes.
Okay. Yeah. Let's get it to a reasonable
state together first. So like uh I guess
that would be we do like a perf test
instead of a main. We'll have this as
demo and then we'll do
like we have one of
these that we can just like grab this PF
test from Paul and edit
And boom, all sorts of
errors. Oh, Puffernet's moved as well,
hasn't
it? It's like
Yeah, we're going to have to like do
stuff to like get Pernet in the right
spot again. I broke a ton of things
apparently.
implicit function declaration.
undeclared library function. Ow. You
need math. I guess.
FLT max is
not
float.h almost
works.
Um then
simplex. Uh so this has to be an uh this
does take float star. So the map has to
be the map has to be floats, right? And
then yeah and then the odds is going to
be like charge or
whatever somehow.
Wait, are you making map continuous?
Well, if it's a height map, it has to be
it's not that the map is continuous,
right? It's still a grid, but then the
data type is a float because that's the
height.
Okay. Yeah, that's that that's solid. I
mean, we could also we can we can change
that, right? But like we'll just we'll
have to change because float like we
just have to discretize this implex is
all, which maybe makes sense to do. I
don't know.
So this should
be Wait, what?
F. What did
I I thought print is in
spring standard
IO. Okay. So, this actually uh builds
now.
Cool. So, this leaks, this
runs at whatever this
is 7 million with sanitize on because
it's not doing anything. So, I can give
you this now to do stuff
with. Go.
There you go. So, that's pushed.
All right. So, I'm trying to think what
the best way to start on this thing is.
Um, let me get that forked over to
obviously basic renderer, right?
What' you call it? Terraform. Yeah. Or
no, the branch or is it on dev? It's
just ondev. There's no reason for it not
to be on dev because it's just an end,
right? Yeah, that's fine. Just
confirming that I'm It's just on dev.
It's enough freaking merging of things.
I have merged so many things. No, you
have PR so many things. I've merged so
many things.
Yeah, at least my PRs aren't too ugly.
Your PRs are good now. You've gotten
good.
So, initially you can literally just
render some rectangles or whatever,
right?
Y'all, I guess I really don't need to do
this on my big computer because it'll
probably be more fun if I do some of the
render
code so that I can stream via my Discord
to the thing, right? Whatever you want.
Whatever you want.
Either that or I can either that or like
I ship you updates.
Yeah, that also works if you want. I
like
I feel like it'd be more fun to like see
things. I can do that
as they're going. So, let me just So,
technically, yo, Spencer, technically
this doesn't work on all platforms, but
uh if thing things for the future, you
could technically make a Twitch and
there's a co-stream thing where you can
see both views.
Oh, yeah.
Do I want to deal with
this? Doesn't work on all platforms, but
it would work for
Twitch and then I like I think it
handles like audio bullshitting. Well,
well, let me just let me just dev on my
laptop and get it going and then worst
comes to worse if I deal with I'll deal
with memory leaks in the
future or I'll just Code perfect C.
We'll see what happens first. You're in
the T-Mox.
I'm in the T-Mox and I was Yep. You're
trying to pull stuff locally in your
team.
All right, we're going to exit that
terminal.
Yeah,
man. I don't know the last time I
actually was deving for my laptop. Ever
since I got my personal box, I feel like
I've just been ripping it like 100% of
the time. I have a brand new Razer
laptop and I haven't anything on it yet
cuz I have my desktop.
Are you still diehard Razer? Um, so the
hardware is good. The thing is I have
the thing the only problem with that uh
that laptop right now is it has trackpad
driver issues. Like the mouse will just
like start not responding for a while
properly. Yeah.
hardware is nice.
But yeah, I have uh what do I have here?
I got the Razer keyboard. I got the
mouse. Technically, this is actually a
Razer monitor. I got that mouse
pad. I don't have the camera and mic
from them anymore though here because I
upgraded. Um, like this is like I like
uh their cam and mic though are like
until you actually get a professional
setup. It's kind of the best like it's
the best thing until that. So it's the
best stuff that you can kind of get that
you just plug in and it works. This you
do not just plug in and it works. This
I've got freaking XLR cables. I've got
this I got this like pop filter set up.
I've got uh I've got this amp on my
desk. I've got this like, you know,
tripod mounted uh camera with a capture
card. There's like a ton of [__]
Morning, major. You show up right on my
right timeline every time you're on
live. Feels like every day. Hey, man.
That's my job.
This is considered not even great hours
for me, frankly.
Like when I get like consistent 70our
dev weeks, that's when I'm like in a
good spot. Releases are always like 40
and it sucks.
Lo, my Mac says it's 3 million SPS and
your computer said 60 million.
Sick.
No, guys, the max the hardware is good.
Trust me.
It was 60 million with uh it should be
like faster than that honestly because
it's not doing anything. So if I just do
it on like
fast, it's just like I think I did I'm
pretty sure I did local. Yeah, I did
local. Yeah, but on fast. What's this?
It was like I don't know 600 million.
Let's
see. 112 million. There you go.
It's not doing
all M. That's actually slow. That's
actually like slow for this if you think
about it.
But yeah, welcome Major. We're deving a
terraforming sim all day today.
The goal is to have a thing where like
you have a height map of the terrain and
you have a goal like for what you want
the terrain to look like and then
machines just run around and move all
the
dirt. It can be
cool. How many hours did you work in a
week during your PhD? Probably not
actually that crazy. It was probably
only like
60. My PhD was not the time that I
worked the hardest honestly. It was like
early in undergrad and even before
that. I think I've gotten probably on
average a bit better hours in building
puffer than my than during my PhD. And
I've definitely gotten more like
productive time uh time in as well. I've
gotten so much more done just in the
last year. Huge amount.
Let's get this started.
I don't know. I've done tripledigit
hours before for like prolonged periods,
but it's just like can't do that on
programming or stuff. I could do that if
I were like building electronics or
something.
Man, I've been working on GPU drive for
so long. It's like kind of funny to like
see like a render function that looks so
empty. Yeah.
Um I'm trying to think what we do here.
So, I guess I got to get us the
entity bigger thing.
Um, I guess it's just
dozer. It's dozer
time, right? You're going to get
bets twerp out dozer.
So, we already set up
this pearly noise arguably should be
already figured out
and then just you're just passing in
this pointer and then you're looping
through it. You have a size
array size you set to 11 by
[Music]
11. Okay. So for render I'm just
taking Okay, that's workable.
And I'm trying to think if we want to
do instead of doing dumb like a dumb
void star shenanigans, we can just have
a couple if statements, right?
What are you trying to figure out? I was
just there things. No worries.
some agents or
whatever. Got dozers.
And then we
reset. Yeah, high school was high school
I averaged like 110 hours a
week. That was [__] brutal. I do not
like I do not wish that on anyone. That
was [__] brutal.
Like I honestly I have the impression
that just like everyone under the age of
18 just is just an idiot
completely. And it's probably just
because of how sleepd deprived I
was during that uh that period of my
life.
It's like, hm, I wonder if like learning
calculus and things would have actually
just been really easy on eight hours of
sleep a night instead of four.
So, I'm just going to randomize the
position of all these dozers for now.
Yeah. Yeah, that's fine.
What's the rand There's like a rand
float macro thing, right?
Oh, auto completes. Perfect.
All right. Did this draw cubes or did
this All right.
There we go. So, this is going to give
us zero to M size dozer.
Okay. I'm gonna steal my GPU drive
camera control
code. The [__] did you do in 110 hours a
week?
Um, I mean mostly
study, some
research, some sports.
I don't know. It was just like very very
competitive.
All
right. See what this
does. All right. I'm staring at nothing.
That didn't work.
Are you staring at nothing?
I'm just getting the like the 3D render
to start loading up the world so it
looks like Mhm. a
planet. I'm just getting with camera
shenanigans.
We get our
dozer.
Now we got to do our actions.
I forget how we pass. Do we just pass
actions flat at the moment?
I guess we do, right? Yeah, it's just a
flat array. Yes, we do.
So, and then generally I re we reshape
it inside of the Enlo logic if it's
multi.
Do we do like that weird cast? Yeah, we
do the weird cast.
Okay. I mean, we can do that, right?
That's not terrible. Uh, what m like
it's GP drive have that in there?
Yeah, that hardware also has it.
Like this weird thing, right?
Yeah.
Float actions like five or whatever.
So we'll just do like uh float excel.
Now,
Okay. So, we have Excel steer and then I
was trying to think what else I was uh I
was going to do. You have acceleration,
you have
steering, and then you have those dig
height, dig angle. Is that
it? Probably dig a
height. I love that the Ray Lib cheat
sheet exists.
something like
this. Okay. So, we've got this bucket
stuff now.
I mean, the first order of business is
to just get the damn things to like move
around. Yeah.
[Music]
Um, yeah, just just have them move
around the the 2D grid. Okay. So, like
eventually the whole like moving around
the the grid in relation to the height
map will be a thing. Like are we going
to move things at an angle relative to
the plane that it's sitting on?
Yeah,
but that can be part two. Exactly.
I'll use the rest of it. Right
back. I am going for breakfast in 15,
but I will be quick with that. And then
I will be back after for the whole rest
of the day with Spencer
here. It's like Elon during peak Tesla
chaos. I mean,
like you kind of got to understand like
the amount of stuff that goes into
things for that. It's not just like,
man, it took you 110 hours to learn
calculus, right?
It's like,
okay. It's like, yeah, why are YouTube
comments so delayed? No idea. It's just
YouTube. Twitch is usually
faster. Make sure you're not scrubbed to
back 15 minutes. Whatever.
No, like there were definitely days I
would sit down at lunch with like six
shots of espresso or
whatever. I do not do that anymore and I
don't think it's particularly productive
um for most things like
You're not going to be doing anything
particularly smart if you're in that if
you're doing it that for that many
hours. Ironically, the one thing that I
can do when I'm just like completely
exhausted is uh making pure knowledge
based decisions. But like if you ask me
for like input on a project or whatever
and I just like know I know the answer
to so many things just from having done
stuff I can still give good answers to
like do and solve like a bunch of
problems but I can't sit down and do any
like actually write any code or
anything. I have to be doing that.
Okay. So, this should give you 0 to
negative 0 to negative
1. Wait, is it minus
2.5? Oh, it's minus
two. It will do the same thing with
steering.
All right, we
back. Comments.
Okay, we have initial bucket things.
We need the angle
though. So I guess it's theta we're
heading and I got to go in what 5 10
minutes for uh for breakfast. But then I
will be quick with that and uh we'll be
back after. Ideally, can you see if you
can get the uh the pearl map to render?
That's what
Yeah, however makes sense to do it. I
like there should be a lot of ways that
we can make that. I'm just dealing with
camera shenanigans. That's all.
Yeah, I'm trying to get the initial like
dozer moves around. It's like once once
you get something on the screen that you
can actually find and look at,
everything else is fine. It's just like
YB just like silly stuff.
Yeah, Haku. I'm not opposed to like
working like working hard is good. It's
just like I I don't know. I get to
points where like my productivity just
drops and once I'm working at like under
half productivity, it's like man and go
do some exercise, lift some weights, do
like work on something else. Actually,
part of the reason I'm doing this sim
today is cuz I'm just sick of working on
release stuff and like I know I can't be
productive on that
today. So, we're doing some something
else cool where I can be
productive cuz this is going to be fun.
So for
the uh the
steering we can
do I don't know what's a decent number
of turning
radians probably just do This
Yeah, literally it's just this
So that should just be our initial
movement stuff at least
um like drafted.
That's literally
it. Let me figure out what we're going
to do with bucket height and angle.
Angle.
also need to figure out time
granularity, don't we?
A lot of things to figure out.
Let me at least get this working for
now.
I don't know. Kind of bulking, kind of
maintaining. The strength is going well
though.
Where's random max come
from? Standard lib.
I have standard
lea. Huh?
Oh, wait. No, it's just a Okay. Warning.
Okay. And then this one
is This is so weird. I like can't see
anything in
3D. Skipping.
Okay, so I got this thing to
compile if it
runs. And yeah, I got to uh I got to go
for breakfast. Should I push this for
you since this does compile? This gives
you a uh a dozer to get rendering as
well.
Uh yeah, you can. I'm still battling
demons.
Okay, I'll give you this for initial
rendering. So, for the uh folks
watching, we'll be back right after
breakfast for the whole rest of the day
uh working on this with Spencer. We're
going to get a cool excavation
sim working. I think it'll be pretty
cool as soon as we get the initial
renderer.
Um, yeah. So, if you want to follow
that, we come back in 30 20 30 minutes.
I'll try to be less than 30 minutes. I
try to try to eat in like 15, 20. Um,
yeah. And then we will go from there.
Cool. Thanks.